.TH H5I 1 "2026-06-10" "h5i 0.1.7" "h5i Manual"
.
.SH NAME
h5i \- Advanced Git sidecar for the AI era
.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B h5i
.I NOUN VERB
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ARGUMENTS ]
.PP
.B h5i
.I COMMAND
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.RI [ ARGUMENTS ]
.RB "(legacy form, still supported with deprecation hint)"
.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B h5i
(\"high-five\") extends Git with semantic dimensions:
.PP
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B Temporal
\(em standard Git history
.IP \(bu 2
.B Intentional
\(em AI provenance (model, agent, prompt, token count)
.IP \(bu 2
.B Empirical
\(em test metrics attached to every commit
.RE
.PP
All metadata is stored as a Git sidecar under
.I .git/.h5i/
and dedicated refs under
.IR refs/h5i/* .
These refs are
.B not
pushed by a plain
.BR "git push" ;
use
.B h5i share push
to share them.
.
.SH COMMAND GROUPS
.
.B h5i
organises its verbs around four nouns. Run
.BR "h5i \fINOUN\fR \-\-help"
(or
.BR "h5i help \fINOUN\fR )
for the verb table with runnable examples and the corresponding MCP tool names.
.PP
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B h5i capture
\(em record provenance:
.BR commit ,
.BR claim ,
.BR memory ,
.BR run .
.IP \(bu 2
.B h5i recall
\(em read history:
.BR log ,
.BR blame ,
.BR diff ,
.BR context ,
.BR claims ,
.BR notes ,
.BR memory ,
.BR recap ,
.BR resume ,
.BR vibe ,
.BR object ,
.BR objects .
.IP \(bu 2
.B h5i audit
\(em assess risk:
.BR review ,
.BR scan ,
.BR compliance ,
.BR policy ,
.BR vibe .
.IP "" 4
Rules split into
.B Quality
(high-precision: credential leak, code execution, blind edit, sensitive-file
edit, CI/CD edit, permission change, test regression, duplicated code, mass
deletion, binary file, missing AI prompt) and
.B Shape
(informational: large diff, wide impact, cross-cutting, polyglot, burst after
gap, untested change). The PR-comment 🚩 fires only on Quality score; Shape
signals appear as supplementary context.
.IP \(bu 2
.B h5i share
\(em publish:
.BR push ,
.BR pull ,
.BR pr ,
.BR memory .
.IP \(bu 2
.B h5i objects
\(em token-reduction object store:
.BR run ,
.BR put ,
.BR get ,
.BR list ,
.BR gc ,
.BR pin ,
.BR unpin ,
.BR fsck ,
.BR filters ,
.BR trust ,
.BR setup .
.RE
.PP
The legacy top-level verbs
.RB ( "h5i commit" ,
.BR "h5i log" ,
.BR "h5i push" ,
\&...) still work; running one prints a one-line
.B h5i hint:
line on stderr suggesting the canonical form, then proceeds normally. Pipes are
unaffected because the hint goes to stderr.
.PP
Typos under a noun group are caught with a closest-match suggestion:
.PP
.RS 4
.EX
$ h5i audit revew
error: `h5i audit revew` is not a known subcommand.
       Did you mean `h5i audit review`?
       Run `h5i audit --help` for the full list.
.EE
.RE
.
.SH COMMANDS
.
.\" ─── init ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i init
Initialize the h5i sidecar in the current Git repository.
Creates
.I .git/.h5i/
with subdirectories
.BR claims/ ,
.BR memory/ ,
and
.BR session_log/ .
.
.\" ─── commit ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i capture commit \-m \fIMESSAGE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Commit staged changes with optional AI provenance, test metrics,
and integrity audit.
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-m,\ \-\-message\  MESSAGE
Git commit message (required).
.TP
.BI \-\-prompt\  TEXT
The user prompt that triggered this commit.
Falls back to env
.B H5I_PROMPT
or
.I .git/.h5i/pending_context.json
(written by the Claude Code hook).
.TP
.BI \-\-model\  NAME
AI model name, e.g.\&
.IR claude\-sonnet\-4\-6 .
Falls back to env
.BR H5I_MODEL .
.TP
.BI \-\-agent\  ID
Agent identifier, e.g.\&
.IR claude\-code .
Falls back to env
.BR H5I_AGENT_ID .
.TP
.BI \-\-caused\-by\  OID
Commit OID that causally triggered this one.
Repeatable:
.BR "\-\-caused\-by abc123 \-\-caused\-by def456" .
Abbreviated OIDs are resolved at commit time.
.TP
.BI \-\-test\-results\  FILE
Path to a JSON test results file produced by any adapter.
Takes precedence over
.B \-\-tests
and env
.BR H5I_TEST_RESULTS .
Schema: see
.B TEST RESULTS SCHEMA
below.
.TP
.BI \-\-test\-cmd\  CMD
Shell command whose stdout is parsed as h5i test JSON.
Used when no
.B \-\-test\-results
file is provided.
.TP
.B \-\-tests
Scan staged source files for inline
.B // h5_i_test_start
/
.B // h5_i_test_end
markers.
.TP
.B \-\-audit
Run all twelve integrity rules before committing.
Violations block the commit;
.B \-\-force
overrides warnings only.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Commit despite integrity
.I warnings
(violations still block).
.TP
.BI \-\-add\  PATH
Stage
.I PATH
before committing (equivalent to running
.B git add
.I PATH
beforehand).
Repeatable:
.BR "\-\-add src/foo.rs \-\-add src/bar.rs" .
Eliminates the separate
.B git add
step when calling from scripts or MCP tools.
.RE
.PP
.B Flag resolution order:
CLI flag \(rA environment variable \(rA pending context file.
.
.\" ─── log ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i recall log [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Display the enriched 5D commit history annotated with AI metadata,
test results, and causal links.
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-l,\ \-\-limit\  N
Number of recent commits to display (default:
.BR 10 ).
.RE
.
.\" ─── blame ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i recall blame \fIFILE\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Show per-line authorship annotated with AI metadata and test status.
Each line is prefixed with a test-status column
.RB ( \(OK\ passing ,\ \(mu\ failing ,\ blank\ =\ no\ data ).
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.B \-\-show-prompt
Annotate each commit boundary with the human prompt that triggered it.
.RE
.
.\" ─── resolve ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i resolve \fIOURS\fR \fITHEIRS\fR \fIFILE\fR
Text-based 3-way merge for
.I FILE
between two commits, using their
.B git merge-base
as the ancestor. h5i materializes the three blobs and delegates to
.BR "git merge-file -p" ,
then prints the merged content to stdout.
.PP
When textual conflicts cannot be resolved, the output contains the usual
.B <<<<<<< / ======= / >>>>>>>
markers and the command exits with status 1; otherwise it exits 0.
.PP
.B Note:
earlier versions of
.B h5i resolve
did a Yjs CRDT semantic merge; that dependency has been removed and
.B h5i resolve
now behaves like a deterministic, git-native 3-way merge.
.PP
.B Arguments
.RS 4
.TP
.I OURS
OID of the local branch.
.TP
.I THEIRS
OID of the incoming branch.
.TP
.I FILE
Relative path to the file to resolve.
.RE
.
.\" ─── rewind ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i rewind \fISHA\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Restore the working tree to the exact file state of
.I SHA
without moving HEAD.
Files in the target commit are restored to their stored content; files that
exist in HEAD but are absent from the target commit are deleted from disk.
After the rewind,
.B git diff HEAD
shows the full picture \(em review it before deciding to commit.
.PP
.B Safety:
before touching any file, the current dirty state (staged + unstaged) is
committed to
.BI refs/h5i/shadow/ <yyyymmdd\-hhmmss>
so recovery is always possible:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
git checkout refs/h5i/shadow/<timestamp> \-\- .
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the list of files that would change without touching the working tree.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Skip saving dirty state to a shadow ref.
Safe when the working tree is already clean.
.RE
.PP
.B Examples
.RS 4
.nf
h5i rewind HEAD~2 \-\-dry\-run          # preview only
h5i rewind abc1234                    # restore + save shadow ref if dirty
h5i rewind abc1234 \-\-force           # restore without backup
.fi
.RE
.
.\" ─── rollback ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i rollback \fIINTENT\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Revert the commit whose stored prompt or message best matches the
natural-language
.I INTENT
description.
Uses semantic search via Claude when
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
is set; falls back to keyword matching otherwise.
.PP
Before reverting, h5i checks whether any later commits declared the
matched commit as a
.B \-\-caused\-by
dependency and warns accordingly.
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-l,\ \-\-limit\  N
Number of recent commits to search (default:
.BR 50 ).
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Show the matched commit without reverting.
.TP
.B \-y,\ \-\-yes
Skip the confirmation prompt (useful in CI).
.RE
.
.\" ─── serve ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i serve [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Launch the embedded web dashboard.
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-p,\ \-\-port\  PORT
Port to listen on (default:
.BR 7150 ).
.RE
.PP
Dashboard tabs:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B Timeline
\(em full commit history with test-status borders, AI prompt panels,
and per-commit Audit buttons
.IP \(bu 2
.B Summary
\(em aggregate stats, agent leaderboard, filter pills
.IP \(bu 2
.B Integrity
\(em audit any commit message + prompt against all twelve rules without committing
.IP \(bu 2
.B Intent Graph
\(em directed graph of causal commit chains
.IP \(bu 2
.B Memory
\(em browse and diff Claude memory snapshots
.IP \(bu 2
.B Sessions
\(em exploration footprint, uncertainty heatmap, and churn for each commit
.IP \(bu 2
.B Sandbox
\(em the read-only "flight recorder" for
.BR "h5i env" :
host-readiness strip, an env fleet table with a deterministic boundary-pressure
score, a five-lane (FS/NET/PROC/RESOURCE/PROVENANCE) per-run timeline, and the
enforced-policy inspector. Denials are surfaced honestly ("Boundary blocked"
only when enforcement fired; "Boundary pressure" for probing shapes; "Weak
isolation" for capability gaps).
.RE
.
.\" ─── env ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i env \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
Isolated agent environments: the fusion of a code branch + git worktree, a
forked reasoning branch, and a digest-pinned, fail-closed policy manifest. Use
one for risky or exploratory work instead of editing the main tree in place.
Every
.B run
is policy-enforced and capture-wrapped (evidence in
.IR refs/h5i/objects ,
tagged with the env id + enforced policy digest). Lifecycle:
.BR create " \(-> " run " \(-> " propose " \(-> " apply | abort " \(-> " gc ;
.B apply
is never automatic \(em a reviewer applies a proposal. Env state lives in
.I refs/h5i/env
and travels with
.BR "h5i share push" / pull
for a cross-clone review loop.
.PP
.B Subcommands
.RS 4
.TP
.BI "create " "NAME " "[\-\-from REV] [\-\-profile P] [\-\-isolation TIER]"
Create an env; base frozen at creation. With no
.B \-\-isolation
(or
.BR "\-\-isolation auto" )
it auto-picks the strongest tier the host can run; an explicit tier refuses
(never downgrades) if the host cannot satisfy it.
.TP
.BI "run " "NAME " "\-\- COMMAND [ARGS...]"
Run a command inside the env, policy-enforced + capture-wrapped.
.TP
.BI "shell " "NAME " "[\-\- COMMAND]"
Open an interactive confined session inside the env (the "agent-in-box"): stdio
is inherited, so every command the session spawns is confined by the box.
Defaults to a login shell; exit code passes through. The session is observed (a
.B shell
event is logged and per-command evidence is staged + ingested where the tier
supports it) and the agent's config is locked read-only. See
.B IN-BOX GIT, CAPTURE & COMMIT
below.
.TP
.B probe
Report what isolation this host can enforce (Landlock, user namespaces, seccomp,
seccomp-notif, cgroup v2 delegation, rootless Podman) and which claims are
satisfiable.
.TP
.BI "list " "[\-\-json]"
List environments on this clone (the fleet view).
.B \-\-json
emits an array of manifests, each enriched with base drift.
.TP
.BI "status " "NAME " "[\-\-json]"
Lifecycle + enforced policy + evidence + base drift.
.TP
.BI "doctor " "NAME " "[\-\-json]"
Enforcement-readiness + structural-health check: whether this host can actually
enforce the env's isolation claim (functional self-test), plus policy-digest
integrity, workspace/branch/context presence, and base drift. Exits non-zero
when unhealthy.
.TP
.BI "secrets " "NAME " "[\-\-json]"
List the policy's secret grants with a dry-run resolution status \(em never the
value, only a fingerprint when resolvable;
.B command:
extractors are not executed by a status query.
.TP
.BI "log " NAME
Event log (created/exec/service/proposed/applied/aborted/gc/violation/secret).
.TP
.BI "diff " "NAME " "[\-\-stat]"
Diff the env's work against its pinned base.
.TP
.BI "inspect " "NAME " "\-\-capture ID"
Render one evidence capture (findings, exit code, policy digest, redactions).
.TP
.BI "compare " "NAMES... " "[\-\-json]"
The "arena": rank environments side by side.
.TP
.BI "service " "start|stop|status|logs " "NAME [SERVICE]"
Manage long-lived services declared as \fB[service.<name>]\fR in
\fB.h5i/env.toml\fR, confined and pid-tracked \(em no daemon. Definitions are
pinned at create (immutable from the box; digest in the manifest), so editing
the worktree config later cannot change what a service runs.
.B start
runs the service in the box and injects a per-env port when one is declared;
.B stop
kills it and captures its log as an h5i object;
.BR status / logs
inspect it. Start/stop append \fBservice\fR events to \fIrefs/h5i/env\fR.
.TP
.BI "ports " "NAME " "[\-\-json]"
The per-env injected port map. h5i allocates a free host port per declared
service port and injects it as \fBPORT\fR / \fBH5I_ENV_PORT_<NAME>\fR; there is
no host\(->box forwarder in v1, so a port is reachable only if the service binds
the injected value (the URL is conditional, not a guarantee).
.TP
.BI "rebase " NAME
Re-pin the base onto the parent branch's advanced tip (3-way; refuses conflicts).
.TP
.BI "propose " NAME
Mediated commit (path-allowlist: rejects nested \fB.git\fR, symlink escapes,
\fB..\fR) + review brief. Never writes the parent.
.TP
.BI "apply " "NAME " "[\-\-patch]"
Apply a proposal onto its parent (reviewer-selected). Default merges; \fB\-\-patch\fR squashes.
The applied commit is stamped with env provenance: a note linking it to the env
and summarizing evidence by trust lane (\fBhost-env-run\fR vs box-claimed
\fBinbox-capture\fR), shown in \fBh5i recall log\fR.
.TP
.BI "abort " NAME
Discard the env; manifest + workspace retained for forensics.
.TP
.B gc
Reclaim worktrees of applied/aborted envs (manifests, branches, captures kept).
.RE
.PP
.B Isolation tiers
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B workspace
\(em git worktree only; no kernel confinement (trusted code).
.IP \(bu 2
.B process
\(em Landlock FS allowlist + seccomp deny-list + user/mount/IPC/UTS/net
namespaces + cgroup v2/rlimits + no-new-privs (rootless; Linux x86-64/aarch64).
.IP \(bu 2
.B supervised
\(em process tier + a live seccomp user-notification socket gate (default-deny:
only boring inet or granted AF_UNIX proceeds) + an always-on network namespace.
The first tier that may claim untrusted-code containment; requires the whole
stack green or is refused. A
.B net.egress
allowlist here is a real L3/L4 guard: a
.B slirp4netns
uplink + an
.B nftables
default-drop allowlist + DNS pinned via a private
.IR /etc/hosts
(no port 53) \(em a raw socket cannot bypass it, and the socket gate's AF_NETLINK
denial stops the confined program from rewriting the rules.
.IP \(bu 2
.B container
\(em rootless Podman (cap-drop=ALL, read-only rootfs, no docker.sock). Enforces a
.B net.egress
domain allowlist via a DNS-pinned host CONNECT proxy (L7, fail-closed; the
.B supervised
tier's nftables egress is the airtight L3/L4 equivalent).
.IP \(bu 2
.B "hardened-container, microvm"
\(em external backends (gVisor/Kata, Firecracker); not in this build.
.RE
.PP
Policy is defined per profile in
.IR .h5i/env.toml " (" "isolation, fs.read/write/deny, net.mode/egress, "
resources.mem/procs/wall/fsize/cpu, tools, env.pass, container.image, secrets,
private_paths).
.B private_paths
give each env its own backing store for build-cache/lock dirs (kind
.IR cache / scratch / private ),
so concurrent envs of the same repo don't collide on inode-level locks \(em
enforced by bind mounts (process/supervised) or
.B \-\-mount
(container), validated fail-closed. Declared
.B secrets
are brokered at run time (source
.IR env: / file: / command: ),
injected, scrubbed from captured evidence, and audited by fingerprint \(em all
fail-closed; a
.B command:
extractor runs host-side code and is refused unless the profile sets
.B allow_command_extractors
(pinned in the digest), and is then bounded by a wall timeout + output cap.
Long-lived
.B [service.<name>]
declarations are pinned at create. The fully-resolved policy's sha256 digest is
pinned in the manifest and every capture (tamper-evident). The
.B h5i_env_*
MCP tools mirror these subcommands.
.PP
.B IN-BOX GIT, CAPTURE & COMMIT
.RS 4
.PP
At the confined tiers the env worktree is a functional git checkout from inside
the box: \fBgit\fR plumbing and \fBh5i recall context\fR work against the env's own
branch (the box cannot move \fBmain\fR, plant hooks, or touch other branches).
Interactive sessions lock the agent config read-only and observe per command:
in-box \fBh5i capture run\fR / \fBh5i capture commit\fR work even though the evidence
store is sealed \(em the git commit lands on the env branch and the evidence (and
commit note) are staged to a spool the host ingests at session end, labeled
\fBinbox-capture\fR (box-claimed) vs host-verified \fBhost-env-run\fR. On
\fBcontainer\fR the observation hook is pinned via injected managed-settings; for
Codex, launch \fBcodex \-\-dangerously\-bypass\-hook\-trust\fR so its hook runs.
.PP
.B Troubleshooting:
a capture/commit that fails with \fI"h5i data store not writable"\fR means
\fB.git/.h5i\fR is owned by another user (usually root, from an earlier
\fBsudo\fR run). Repair with
.BR "sudo chown \-R \(dq$(id \-u):$(id \-g)\(dq .git/.h5i" .
.RE
.
.\" ─── share push ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i share push [\fIOPTIONS\fR] (alias: h5i push)
Push the h5i refs (everything under
.IR refs/h5i/* )
to a remote. Branch-scoped by default: like
.BR "git push" ,
only the
.B current branch's
h5i material travels.
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-r,\ \-\-remote\  REMOTE
Remote to push to (default:
.BR origin ).
.TP
.BI \-b,\ \-\-branch\ [ BRANCH ]
Scope to a specific branch instead of the current one. Pass a name, or
.B \-\-branch
bare for the current git branch (the default). Scoping carries the branch's
context ref
.RB ( refs/h5i/context/<branch> ),
the
.B notes
for commits reachable from it, the
.B objects
manifests captured on it (plus the evidence of envs forked from it), the
.B msg
messages tagged with it, and the
.B env
state + code branches of envs whose
.I parent_branch
matches. memory always pushes in full. These aggregate refs are unioned
onto the remote's current ref (a fast\-forward) rather than force\-pushing a
subset \(em other branches' data on the remote is never deleted.
.TP
.B \-\-all\-branches
Push every branch's h5i material (the pre-scoping behavior). Use for a first
full sync or in CI. Mutually exclusive with
.BR \-\-branch .
.RE
.
.\" ─── share pr ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i share pr post [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Post (or upsert) a sticky GitHub pull-request comment summarising h5i
provenance for every AI-authored commit on the current branch. Re-running
edits the same comment in place via an HTML marker
.RB ( "<!-- h5i:pr-comment v1 -->" )
so the PR never accumulates duplicates.
.PP
The comment renders, per AI commit:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
the prompt that drove the change
.IP \(bu 2
model, agent, and token usage
.IP \(bu 2
test metrics (passed / failed / total, exit code)
.IP \(bu 2
structured
.B \-\-decisions
recorded at commit time
.IP \(bu 2
a 🚩 flag with
.B h5i audit review
triggers (uncertainty, blind edits, churn, scope) when the score crosses the
review threshold
.RE
.PP
.B Requirements:
the
.B gh
CLI must be installed and authenticated
.RB ( "gh auth status"
clean) and the current branch must have an open pull request (or pass
.BR \-\-number ).
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-\-number\  N
PR number (default: auto-detect from current branch).
.TP
.BI \-l,\ \-\-limit\  N
Limit number of commits scanned (default: 25).
.TP
.BI \-\-style\  STYLE
Hero-block layout for the comment's first viewport. One of:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
.B receipt
(default) — punchline H1 headline, goal in IMPORTANT callout, centered HTML
stat card, the triggering prompt promoted to its own section, cleaned
milestone list. Optimised for screenshot / social share.
.IP \(bu 2
.B review
— reviewer-first triage brief: merge status, review-focus files, evidence
line, goal, a short reviewer checklist, then compact THINK/NOTE highlights.
Keeps the Mermaid DAG collapsed below the audit sections.
.IP \(bu 2
.B detective
— narrative arc: goal → by the numbers → considered → key insight → shipped.
.IP \(bu 2
.B replay
— Mermaid reasoning swim-lane DAG promoted above the fold (expanded), with
goal + stats above and milestone trail below.
.IP \(bu 2
.B minimal
— quiet variant for internal PRs. Same data, no H1 headline, no stat table,
no dollar figures, no IMPORTANT callout.
.RE
Secrets, duplicates, the collapsed reasoning DAG, and per-commit provenance
are shared across styles, except
.B replay
, which promotes the DAG above the fold.
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Print the markdown body and exit without calling
.BR gh .
.TP
.B \-\-no\-msg
Omit the 💬 Agent coordination section (branch-scoped i5h message threads
from
.BR refs/h5i/msg ).
.TP
.B \-\-msg\-bodies
Show a redacted excerpt for every message kind, not just review-typed ones.
By default
.BR FYI /free\-text
messages are metadata-only; this opt-in publishes their excerpts too. All text
remains secret-redacted and escaped.
.TP
.BI \-\-msg\-limit\  N
Cap coordination threads rendered before eliding (default: 12).
.RE
.PP
The Agent coordination section folds in cross-agent message threads relevant to
the PR branch (a thread is included when one of its messages was tagged with the
branch). It is collapsed, self-omits when empty, and is disclosure-safe: only
review-typed messages
.RB ( REVIEW_REQUEST ", " RISK ", " HANDOFF ", " ASK
and their replies) show an excerpt, every field is secret-redacted and escaped,
and a footer records the
.B refs/h5i/msg
tip OID.
.PP
.B Examples
.RS 4
.nf
h5i share pr post                          # upsert sticky comment
h5i share pr body \-\-limit 25               # render markdown to stdout (for CI)
h5i share pr post \-\-dry\-run                # preview without calling gh
h5i share pr post \-\-number 42              # target a specific PR
h5i share pr body \-\-style review           # preview the reviewer-triage layout
h5i share pr body \-\-style detective        # preview the narrative layout
h5i share pr post \-\-style replay \-\-dry\-run # preview the DAG-as-hero layout
h5i share pr body \-\-no\-msg                  # drop the Agent coordination section
h5i share pr body \-\-msg\-bodies              # include FYI/free-text excerpts too
.fi
.RE
.
.\" ─── share pr body ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i share pr body [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Render the PR comment markdown to stdout. Useful for CI pipelines that prefer
to call
.B gh pr edit \-\-body\-file \-
themselves, or to commit the body to a file for review.
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-l,\ \-\-limit\  N
Limit number of commits scanned (default: 25).
.TP
.BI \-\-style\  STYLE
Hero-block layout —
.B receipt
(default),
.BR review ,
.BR detective ,
.BR replay ,
or
.BR minimal .
See
.B h5i share pr post
above for descriptions.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-msg ", " \-\-msg\-bodies ", " \-\-msg\-limit \fIN\fR
Control the 💬 Agent coordination section, exactly as for
.BR "h5i share pr post" .
.RE
.
.\" ─── objects / token reduction ──────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i capture run [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \-\- \fICOMMAND\fR [\fIARGS\fR...]
Run
.I COMMAND
and surface only a filtered, structured summary of its output; the full raw
output is stored content-addressed under
.I .git/.h5i/objects/
and a small manifest (pointer + structured summary) is appended to
.IR refs/h5i/objects .
The child's exit code is passed through, so this is a transparent wrapper.
.TP
.B \-\-format \fIcompact\fR|\fIstructured\fR|\fIjson\fR|\fIsummary\fR
Output format. Default
.B compact
(one line per finding \(em token-minimal text);
.B structured
emits the full YAML;
.B json
emits the canonical
.B ToolResult
JSON;
.B summary
emits the legacy filtered text. Invalid values are rejected.
.TP
.B \-\-min\-bytes \fIN\fR
Only store + summarize when the output is at least
.I N
bytes (default 2048); smaller output passes through unstored, making it safe to
wrap any command.
.B 0
always captures.
.TP
.B \-\-kind \fITEST\fR|\fILOG\fR|\fIJSON\fR|\fIDIFF\fR|\fIGENERIC\fR
Force a content kind instead of auto-detecting.
.TP
.B \-\-budget \fIN\fR, \-\-token\-budget \fIN\fR
Cap the summary to
.I N
lines / tokens.
.TP
.B \-\-file \fIPATH\fR
Associate the capture with a file (repeatable). The branch and working-tree
diff are recorded automatically.
.PP
The default
.B compact
format prints one line per finding
.RI ( "<sev> <location> <rule> <message>" );
.B \-\-format structured
shows the full schema below. The structured result is the AI-friendly schema: an envelope
.RB ( tool ,
.BR kind ,
.B status
\(em never
.B passed/ok
on a nonzero exit \(em
.BR exit_code ,
.BR counts ,
.BR parser_confidence )
plus a unified
.B findings
list (a test failure, compile error, and lint diagnostic share one shape, each
with a deterministic
.BR fingerprint ).
Dedicated parsers: pytest, cargo test, go test, tsc, eslint, ruff, mypy; every
other tool gets a generic result.
.
.SS h5i recall objects [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
List captured outputs (newest first) with their summaries and local
availability.
.TP
.B \-\-status \fIpassed\fR|\fIok\fR|\fIfailed\fR|\fIerror\fR|\fIunknown\fR
Filter by structured status.
.TP
.B \-\-tool \fINAME\fR
Filter by tool (e.g.
.IR pytest ).
.TP
.B \-\-branch \fIB\fR, \-\-file \fIPATH\fR, \-\-diff
Filter by the branch, an associated file, or intersection with the current
working-tree diff.
.
.SS h5i recall object \fIID\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Rehydrate a captured output by short id,
.IR sha256:<hex> ,
or unambiguous prefix. Default prints the full raw bytes;
.B \-\-summary
prints the reduced summary,
.B \-\-manifest
the full manifest JSON. An evicted/absent blob is reported clearly.
.
.SS h5i objects \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
Maintenance for the object store.
.TP
.B run, put, get, list
Aliases/peers of
.BR "h5i capture run" ,
.IR "objects put <file|->" ,
.BR "h5i recall object" ,
.BR "h5i recall objects" .
.TP
.B push [\-\-remote \fIR\fR] [\-\-backend \fIB\fR], pull [\-\-remote \fIR\fR] [\-\-backend \fIB\fR]
Share raw blobs (separate from the metadata
.BR "h5i share push" ,
because raw output is heavy).
.B \-\-backend
is
.IR auto | lfs | git-ref
(default
.IR auto ).
.IP \(bu 3
.B Git LFS
(default for HTTP(S) remotes) \(em stores blobs on the remote's LFS server,
content-addressed by sha256. Spoken natively over the LFS Batch API (no
.B git lfs
CLI, no pointer files; auth via
.BR "git credential" ).
With LFS,
.B h5i recall object
lazily fetches a blob on demand and caches it.
.IP \(bu 3
.B git-ref store
.RI ( refs/h5i/objects-data ,
fallback for SSH/file remotes) \(em
.B objects push
fetches and union-merges first, so a non-force push never clobbers a peer's
blobs; after
.BR "objects pull" ,
.B recall
falls back to the local git-ref store.
.IP "" 3
Both verify the content address on every read; tampered bytes are rejected and
never cached.
.TP
.B gc [\-\-ttl \fIDUR\fR] [\-\-dry\-run]
Evict local raw blobs to reclaim space. Without
.BR \-\-ttl ,
removes only orphan blobs (no manifest); with it, also evicts referenced blobs
older than
.I DUR
(e.g.
.IR 30d ).
Manifests/summaries are never rewritten; pinned blobs are never evicted.
.TP
.B pin \fIID\fR, unpin \fIID\fR
Protect a blob from
.BR gc ,
or release it.
.TP
.B fsck
Verify manifests against the local store (absent blobs, orphans).
.TP
.B filters [\-\-verify]
List the built-in declarative command filters;
.B \-\-verify
runs their inline golden tests.
.TP
.B trust [\-\-status] [\-\-remove]
Review and trust a project-local
.I .h5i/filters.toml
so its rules apply. Untrusted or changed files are never applied (any edit
re-arms the gate);
.B H5I_TRUST_FILTERS=1
overrides for CI.
.TP
.B setup
Wire token-reduction guidance into
.I .claude/h5i.md
and
.I AGENTS.md
so agents wrap large-output commands. Idempotent.
.
.\" ─── hook ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i hook \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
Manage the agent hook wiring that drives automatic prompt capture and context
tracing. The per-event handlers are agent-specific and live under
.B h5i claude
(Claude Code) and
.B h5i codex
(Codex);
.B h5i hook
owns the cross-agent
.BR setup ", " session\-start ", and " wrap\-bash " subcommands."
.PP
.B Subcommands
.RS 4
.TP
.B setup [\-\-write] [\-\-target claude|codex] [\-\-scope project|user] [\-\-wrap\-bash]
Without
.B \-\-write
print the install instructions. With
.B \-\-write
idempotently merge the hook wiring into
.I .claude/settings.json
(Claude) and
.I .codex/config.toml
(Codex):
.B UserPromptSubmit
\(->
.BR "h5i claude prompt" ,
.B SessionStart
\(->
.BR "h5i hook session\-start" ,
.B PostToolUse
(Edit|Write|Read) \(->
.BR "h5i claude sync" ,
.B Stop
\(->
.B h5i claude finish
(Claude) or
.B h5i codex finish \-\-quiet
(Codex; Codex only takes the SessionStart/Stop events).
.B \-\-target
limits to one agent,
.B \-\-scope user
writes the user-level config, and
.B \-\-wrap\-bash
also registers the Bash capture-wrap hook. The MCP server is no longer wired by
setup \(em register it by hand (see
.BR "h5i mcp" ).
.TP
.B session\-start
The shared
.B SessionStart
handler for Claude Code and Codex: injects prior context into the new session
and notes any unread cross-agent messages on resume.
.TP
.B wrap\-bash
Optional
.B PreToolUse
handler for the Bash tool (Claude Code \(>= 2.0.10). Reads the tool-event JSON
from stdin and rewrites the command (via
.BR updatedInput )
into a
.B h5i capture run
wrapper, so the agent gets a token-reduced summary for large/failing output
while the full raw bytes are stored for
.BR "h5i recall" .
Skips h5i's own commands, top-level
.BR cd ,
and anything outside a git repo; every failure path emits nothing, so the
original command runs untouched. With it enabled, permission allowlists match
the rewritten
.B h5i capture run
command, not the original.
.RE
.
.\" ─── claude ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i claude \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
Claude Code integration hook handlers, wired into
.I .claude/settings.json
by
.BR "h5i hook setup \-\-write" .
They run automatically per event \(em you normally never invoke them by hand
\(em and all fail open (no-op outside an h5i repo, never block the turn).
.PP
.B Subcommands
.RS 4
.TP
.B sync
The
.B PostToolUse
handler. Reads the tool-event JSON from stdin and emits an
.B h5i recall context trace
entry for the appropriate kind (OBSERVE on Read, ACT on Edit/Write); on
.B Read
events it injects prior reasoning about the file into Claude's context window
so accumulated THINK entries surface before the file is modified.
.TP
.B finish
The
.B Stop
handler. Mines THINK / NOTE entries from the session transcript (including
deferrals and unfulfilled promises) and auto-checkpoints the context workspace
milestone.
.TP
.B prompt
The
.B UserPromptSubmit
handler. Reads the hook JSON from stdin and records the verbatim human prompt
into
.IR .git/.h5i/pending_context.json ,
accumulating across turns.
.B h5i capture commit
then uses this raw prompt as the recorded prompt \(em it wins over an
agent-authored
.B \-\-intent
\(em so AI provenance reflects what the human actually asked.
.RE
.
.\" ─── codex ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i codex \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
Codex integration hook handlers.
.B h5i hook setup \-\-write \-\-target codex
wires
.B h5i hook session\-start
(SessionStart) and
.B h5i codex finish \-\-quiet
(Stop) into
.IR .codex/config.toml .
Unlike the Claude handlers, these read the active Codex JSONL session under
.I ~/.codex/sessions/
directly, so they also work as plain commands run by hand.
.PP
.B Subcommands
.RS 4
.TP
.B prelude
Print the current shared context in a compact session-start format: goal,
branch, milestones, recent THINK/ACT entries, and open TODOs. Also delivers
Codex's unread messages (Codex has no Stop hook for turn delivery).
.TP
.B sync
Scan the active Codex session log for this repository and backfill
OBSERVE / ACT trace entries into
.BR "h5i recall context" .
Sync state is recorded in
.I .git/.h5i/codex_sync_state.json
so repeated runs only process new events.
.TP
.B finish [\-\-summary \fITEXT\fR] [\-\-quiet]
Run
.B h5i codex sync
then auto-checkpoint the context workspace. If
.B \-\-summary
is omitted, a short summary is derived from the most recent ACT entries.
.B \-\-quiet
suppresses stdout for hook use.
.RE
.
.\" ─── msg ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i msg [\fISUBCOMMAND\fR]
Cross-agent messaging stored in the Git ref
.I refs/h5i/msg
(append-only
.I messages.jsonl
plus an
.I agents.json
roster), shared with
.B h5i share push
/
.BR pull " (divergent sends union-merge by message id)."
Follows the i5h protocol: typed, operational handoffs.
Identity is per-agent and resolves
.BR \-\-from / \-\-as " > " $H5I_AGENT " > stored default;"
with
.B $H5I_AGENT
set, no flag is needed and several agents may share one clone.
With no subcommand, prints the inbox dashboard.
.PP
.B Subcommands
.RS 4
.TP
.B setup [\fINAME\fR] [\-\-scope project|user] [\-\-no\-block]
One-time Claude Code wiring: write
.B env.H5I_AGENT
and a turn-delivery Stop hook into
.IR settings.json .
Default scope is the project with an autonomous
.B \-\-block
hook;
.B \-\-no\-block
uses a notify-only hook.
For Codex, launch it with
.B H5I_AGENT=codex
instead.
.TP
.B send \fITO\fR \fITEXT\fR...
Send a message (\fITO\fR =
.B all
broadcasts). Typed verbs
.BR ask ", " review ", " risk ", " handoff
set the i5h kind and structured fields
(\fB\-\-branch\fR, \fB\-\-focus\fR, \fB\-\-risk\fR, \fB\-\-pr\fR, \fB\-\-priority\fR,
\fB\-\-context\fR; options precede \fITO\fR).
.TP
.B reply \fIN\fR \fITEXT\fR... | ack \fIN\fR | done \fIN\fR | decline \fIN\fR
Threaded reply to message
.I N
of your last view (sets \fBreply_to\fR / \fBthread_id\fR).
.TP
.B inbox [\-\-peek] | history [\-\-with \fIAGENT\fR] | team
Show unread (marks read; \fB\-\-peek\fR does not), the full log, or the roster.
.TP
.B wait [\-\-all] [\-\-timeout \fIN\fR] | watch [\-\-all] | hook [\-\-block] | as \fINAME\fR | whoami
.B wait
blocks until a message arrives, prints it (peek), and exits \(em the wake
primitive for autonomous delivery (run via background task or poll loop so an
idle agent is woken on a reply).
.B watch
is a live human-facing stream.
.B hook
is Stop-hook turn delivery;
.B as
gets/sets the stored identity.
.RE
.PP
Add
.B \-\-plain
to any read command for greppable output.
Incoming messages are treated as untrusted collaborator input.
.
.\" ─── resume ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i recall resume [\fIBRANCH\fR]
Generate a structured session-handoff briefing assembled entirely from
local h5i data (no AI API call required).
Shows: branch / HEAD commit, project goal and milestone progress
(from
.IR .h5i\-ctx/ ),
last session statistics, high-risk files (weighted by uncertainty +
churn), causal exposure, memory changes since the last snapshot, and
a suggested opening prompt.
.PP
.B Risk score formula
.RS 4
.PP
.B risk\ =\ 0.4\ \(mu\ (1\ \-\ avg_confidence)\ +\ 0.3\ \(mu\ churn_score\ +\ 0.3\ \(mu\ (signal_count\ /\ max_signal_count)
.PP
Files are ranked descending and the top five are shown.
.RE
.
.\" ─── memory ─────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i recall memory \fIACTION\fR
Version-control Claude Code's persistent memory files alongside your code.
Claude Code stores per-project memory in
.IR "~/.claude/projects/<repo\-path>/memory/" .
h5i snapshots these files into
.I .git/.h5i/memory/<commit\-oid>/
and exposes them through the
.I refs/h5i/memory
ref.
.PP
.B Actions
.RS 4
.TP
.B snapshot
Snapshot current memory into the sidecar.
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-\-commit\  OID
Associate with this commit OID (default: HEAD).
.TP
.BI \-\-path\  DIR
Override the source directory (default:
.IR "~/.claude/projects/<repo>/memory/" ).
.RE
.TP
.B log
List all memory snapshots.
.TP
.B diff [\fIFROM\fR [\fITO\fR]]
Show how memory changed between two snapshots.
Omit
.I TO
to compare against live memory.
Omit both to compare the two most recent snapshots.
.TP
.B restore \fICOMMIT\fR [\fB\-y\fR]
Restore Claude's memory to the state captured at
.IR COMMIT .
Prompts for confirmation unless
.B \-y
is given.
.TP
.B push [\fB\-r\fR \fIREMOTE\fR]
Push snapshots to a remote via
.IR refs/h5i/memory .
.TP
.B pull [\fB\-r\fR \fIREMOTE\fR]
Pull snapshots from a remote.
.RE
.
.\" ─── notes ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i recall notes \fIACTION\fR
Parse Claude Code session logs and attach enriched metadata
(exploration footprint, uncertainty heatmap, omission report, file churn,
intent graph) to commits.
Analyses are stored in
.IR .git/.h5i/session_log/<commit\-oid>/analysis.json .
.PP
.B Actions
.RS 4
.TP
.B analyze [\-\-session \fIJSONL\fR] [\-\-commit \fIOID\fR]
Parse a session log and link it to a commit (default: HEAD).
Auto-detects the latest Claude Code session log when
.B \-\-session
is omitted.
.TP
.B show [\fICOMMIT\fR]
Show stored session analysis for
.I COMMIT
(default: HEAD).
Displays files consulted vs edited and the causal chain summary.
.TP
.B footprint [\fIOID\fR]
Exploration footprint: every file the AI read before making a change,
revealing implicit dependencies that Git's diff does not capture.
.TP
.B uncertainty [\-\-commit \fIOID\fR] [\-\-file \fIPATH\fR]
Uncertainty heatmap.
Records moments where Claude expressed uncertainty: "not sure", "let me check", "this might break", etc.
Confidence thresholds:
.BR red\ (<35%) ,\  yellow\ (35\(en55%) ,\  green\ (>55%) .
.TP
.B omissions [\-\-commit \fIOID\fR] [\-\-file \fIPATH\fR]
Omission report.
Detects three categories of incomplete work left behind in Claude's
thinking blocks:
.RS 4
.TP
.B Deferral\ (red)
Claude acknowledged something and explicitly deferred it: "for now", "out of scope", "separate PR", "leave this for later".
.TP
.B Placeholder\ (yellow)
Claude inserted an admittedly incomplete implementation: "stub", "hardcoded for now", "simplified version", "workaround".
.TP
.B Unfulfilled promise\ (cyan)
Claude stated "I'll also update X" or "I should add Y" but the named file never appeared in the edit sequence.
.RE
.TP
.B churn [\-l \fIN\fR]
Per-file edit-churn scores across all analyzed sessions.
Churn = edits / (edits + reads).
Shows top
.I N
files (default: 20).
.TP
.B graph [\-l \fIN\fR] [\-\-mode \fIMODE\fR]
Visualize the chain of intents across recent commits.
.B \-\-mode prompt
(default) uses stored prompts;
.B \-\-mode analyze
calls Claude for richer intent extraction.
.TP
.B review [\-l \fIN\fR] [\-\-min\-score \fIF\fR] [\-\-json]
Identify commits most likely to need human review.
Scores are computed from uncertainty, churn, and signal density.
.B \-\-json
emits raw JSON instead of the styled table.
.RE
.
.\" ─── context ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i recall context \fIACTION\fR
Git-style branching and committing applied to agent
.I reasoning
rather than code.
Stores a version-controlled workspace in
.I refs/h5i/context
based on arXiv:2508.00031, enhanced with five capabilities from recent
research (CMV arXiv:2602.22402, Claude Code design-space arXiv:2604.14228):
(1) DAG trace nodes with explicit parent links,
(2) ephemeral scratch traces cleared on each milestone commit,
(3) three-pass structurally-lossless
.BR pack ,
(4) stable-prefix / dynamic-suffix split for prompt-cache efficiency,
(5) subagent-scoped sub-contexts via
.BR scope .
.PP
.B Workspace layout
.RS 4
.nf
refs/h5i/context tree:
    main.md                  \(em global roadmap: goal, milestones, notes
    .current_branch          \(em active branch name
    git-goals/<git-branch>.md \(em goal for a Git branch
    branches/<context-branch>/
        commit.md            \(em milestone summaries (append-only)
        trace.md             \(em human-readable OTA execution trace
        dag.json             \(em DAG of trace nodes with parent links
        ephemeral.md         \(em scratch traces (cleared on context commit)
        metadata.yaml        \(em file structure, dependencies, env config
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B Actions
.RS 4
.TP
.B init \-\-goal \fITEXT\fR
Create the workspace if needed and set the goal for the current Git branch.
Run once per Git branch before writing context on that branch.
.TP
.B commit \fISUMMARY\fR [\-\-detail \fITEXT\fR]
Save a milestone checkpoint (one-line summary + optional detail).
Also clears the ephemeral scratch buffer for the current branch.
Requires the current Git branch to have a goal and the active h5i context
branch to have a purpose.
.TP
.B branch \fINAME\fR \-\-purpose \fITEXT\fR
Create and switch to a new h5i context branch.
Multiple h5i context branches can live under the same Git branch.
.TP
.B checkout \fINAME\fR
Switch to an existing h5i context branch.
.TP
.B merge \fIBRANCH\fR
Merge a completed branch's log and summaries into the current branch.
Appends a two-parent DAG merge node to
.I dag.json
so both branch histories remain causally connected.
.TP
.B scope \fINAME\fR [\-\-purpose \fITEXT\fR]
Create a subagent-scoped sub-context.
The branch is stored as
.BI scope/ NAME
(the prefix is added automatically) and tagged in its
.I metadata.yaml
so it appears separately under
.B Scoped subagents
in
.BR status .
Merge back with
.BI "h5i recall context merge scope/" NAME
when the subagent finishes.
.TP
.B trace [\-\-ephemeral] \-\-kind \fIKIND\fR \fICONTENT\fR
Append an OTA (Observe\(enThink\(enAct) trace entry.
Requires the current Git branch to have a goal and the active h5i context
branch to have a purpose.
Valid
.I KIND
values:
.BR OBSERVE ,\  THINK ,\  ACT ,\  NOTE
(case-insensitive).
.RS 4
.TP
Without
.B \-\-ephemeral
the entry is written to
.I trace.md
and to
.I dag.json
as a new DAG node with the previous node as parent.
.TP
With
.B \-\-ephemeral
the entry goes to
.I ephemeral.md
only \(em excluded from the DAG, excluded from snapshots, and cleared on
the next
.BR "h5i recall context commit" .
Use this for scratch observations you only need for the current step.
.RE
.TP
.B show [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Retrieve the current project state.
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-\-branch\  NAME
Show a specific branch without switching.
.TP
.BI \-\-commit\  HASH
Show a specific commit entry by hash prefix.
.TP
.B \-\-trace
Include recent OTA trace lines.
.TP
.BI \-\-metadata\  SEGMENT
Pull a named section from
.IR metadata.yaml .
.TP
.BI \-\-window\  N
Number of recent commits to include (default: 3).
.TP
.BI \-\-trace\-offset\  N
Scroll back N lines from the end of the trace.
.RE
.TP
.B status
Overview of the current workspace: current Git branch goal, active h5i
context branch, milestone commit count, trace line count, other context branches,
.B scoped subagents
.RI ( scope/*
branches listed separately), and the
.B stable-prefix / dynamic-suffix
boundary showing how many trace lines are prompt-cache friendly vs. volatile.
.TP
.B prompt
Print a Claude system prompt that explains how to use h5i context
commands inside an agent session.
.TP
.B scan [\-\-branch \fINAME\fR] [\-\-json]
Scan the trace for prompt-injection patterns and report a 0.0\(en1.0 risk score.
.TP
.B restore \fISHA\fR
Restore the context workspace to the state captured when git commit
.I SHA
was made.
Every
.B h5i capture commit
writes a snapshot automatically; this command replays it by appending a
new commit to
.IR refs/h5i/context ,
so the full history is preserved.
SHA prefixes are accepted (e.g.\&
.BR a3f8c12 ).
.TP
.B diff \fIFROM\fR \fITO\fR
Show how the context workspace evolved between two git commits.
Reports new milestones, new OTA trace steps, and any change to the
project goal.
Both
.I FROM
and
.I TO
must have context snapshots (created automatically by
.BR "h5i capture commit" ).
.TP
.B relevant \fIFILE\fR
Retrieve all context entries that mention
.IR FILE .
Searches the current branch's trace and milestone log, plus all other
context branches, and prints matching entries grouped by section.
Run this
.B before
editing a file to recover accumulated reasoning about it without
re-reading the full trace.
.TP
.B pack
Compact the current branch's OTA trace using a
.B three-pass structurally-lossless algorithm:
(1)\~remove OBSERVE entries whose subject token appears in a later THINK or
ACT entry (subsumed observations),
(2)\~preserve every THINK, ACT, and NOTE entry verbatim,
(3)\~merge consecutive OBSERVE entries that share the same subject token
into one entry with a
.BI \(mu N
count annotation.
Updates both
.I trace.md
and
.IR dag.json .
Run
.B git gc
afterwards to reclaim disk space.
.TP
.B todo
Extract all open TODO / FIXME / BLOCKED items from the current branch's
trace.
Only NOTE and THINK entries are searched (OBSERVE lines are ignored).
.TP
.B knowledge
Distill all THINK entries from every h5i context branch into a deduplicated
project knowledge base.
Useful at session start to re-absorb accumulated design rationale without
re-reading every branch trace in full.
The MCP equivalent is
.BR h5i_context_knowledge ,
which returns structured JSON.
.TP
.B ephemeral [\-\-branch \fINAME\fR]
Display the current ephemeral scratch traces for a branch (default: current
branch).
Ephemeral entries are written with
.B h5i recall context trace \-\-ephemeral
and are automatically cleared on the next
.BR "h5i recall context commit" .
.TP
.B cached\-prefix [\-\-tail \fIN\fR]
Show the stable-prefix / dynamic-suffix boundary in the current trace
(default tail: 40 lines).
Lines in the stable prefix are unchanged across most agent steps and
benefit from prompt-cache hits; lines in the dynamic suffix change every
step.
.TP
.B recap [\-\-session \fIPATH\fR] [\-\-since \fIISO8601\fR] [\-\-dry\-run]
Import Claude Code
.B Recap
entries (JSONL records with
.I type=system
and
.IR subtype=away_summary )
from the active session log as context commits.
Each recap body
.RI ( "Goal: ... Next: ... (disable recaps in /config)" )
is split on the
.I Next:
boundary into a one-line summary and a detail block, then written as a
milestone via
.BR "h5i recall context commit" .
Imported UUIDs are tracked in
.I recaps.json
at the root of
.I refs/h5i/context
so repeated runs are idempotent.
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-\-session\  PATH
Explicit JSONL session log to scan.
Defaults to the most recently modified Claude Code session for the current
working directory.
.TP
.BI \-\-since\  ISO8601
Only import recaps with a timestamp strictly after this cutoff,
e.g.\&
.BR 2026-04-23T00:00:00Z .
.TP
.B \-\-dry\-run
Report what would be imported without modifying the workspace.
.RE
.RE
.
.\" ─── vibe ───────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i recall vibe [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Show an instant AI footprint audit of the repository: what fraction of
recent commits are AI-generated, which directories are fully AI-written,
and which files carry the highest risk.
.PP
Output is divided into five sections, printed only when non-empty:
.RS 4
.IP \(bu 2
.B AI %
\(em fraction of scanned commits that carry AI provenance metadata
.IP \(bu 2
.B Contributors
\(em count of distinct human authors and AI models, with names
.IP \(bu 2
.B Fully AI dirs
\(em directories where every commit is AI-generated (\(>= 2 commits)
.IP \(bu 2
.B Hot dirs
\(em directories with \(>= 80% AI commits (\(>= 3 commits)
.IP \(bu 2
.B Blind edits
\(em total blind edits from all analysed sessions and the file count
.IP \(bu 2
.B Risky files
\(em top 5 files with \(>= 70% AI commits plus at least one risk signal
.RE
.PP
A file is flagged when its AI commit ratio is \(>= 70% and at least one of:
no passing test metrics, one or more blind edits, or one or more
uncertainty annotations.
Blind-edit and uncertainty data come from session analyses stored by
.BR "h5i recall notes analyze" .
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-l,\ \-\-limit\  N
Number of recent commits to scan (default:
.BR 500 ).
.TP
.B \-\-json
Output raw JSON instead of the styled report.
.RE
.
.\" ─── mcp ────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i mcp
Start the h5i MCP (Model Context Protocol) server on stdio.
Implements the
.B 2024-11-05
specification over a newline-delimited JSON-RPC\~2.0 transport.
.PP
Register with Claude Code by adding to
.I ~/.claude/settings.json
or
.IR .claude/settings.json :
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "h5i": { "command": "h5i", "args": ["mcp"] }
  }
}
.fi
.RE
.PP
.B Capabilities
.RS 4
.TP
.B tools
Twenty-four tools covering
.BR h5i_commit ,\  h5i_rewind ,\  h5i_notes_analyze ,\  h5i_log ,\  h5i_blame ,\  h5i_notes_* ,
and
.B h5i_context_*
(including
.BR h5i_context_knowledge ).
See
.I MANUAL.md
for the full parameter reference.
.TP
.B resources
Two resources:
.B h5i://context/current
(live reasoning workspace state) and
.B h5i://log/recent
(10 most recent commits with AI provenance).
.TP
.B resources.subscribe
Both resources support live push notifications.
.RE
.PP
.B Resource subscriptions
.RS 4
.PP
The server advertises
.B capabilities.resources.subscribe\ =\ true
in the
.B initialize
response.
Send
.B resources/subscribe
with a
.I uri
parameter to register; the server spawns a 2-second polling thread per URI
and pushes
.B notifications/resources/updated
whenever the content changes.
Send
.B resources/unsubscribe
to stop.
.PP
Subscribable URIs:
.B h5i://log/recent
(fires when a new
.B h5i capture commit
lands) and
.B h5i://context/current
(fires when the context workspace is updated).
.RE
.
.\" ─── policy ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i audit policy \fISUBCOMMAND\fR
Manage governance rules for AI-assisted commits.
Rules live in
.I .h5i/policy.toml
(workdir, not inside
.IR .git/ ;
commit it alongside your code).
Policy is evaluated automatically on every
.B h5i capture commit\c
; violations block the commit unless
.B \-\-force
is passed.
.PP
.B Subcommands
.RS 4
.TP
.B init
Create
.I .h5i/policy.toml
with a commented-out starter configuration.
.TP
.B check
Dry-run policy check against the currently staged files without committing.
Exit code is non-zero when at least one error-level violation is found.
.TP
.B show
Print the parsed policy configuration.
.RE
.PP
.B Policy file schema
.RS 4
.nf
[commit]
require_ai_provenance = true   # reject commits with no AI provenance
min_message_len = 10           # reject short messages
require_audit_on_flagged_paths = true
label = "company-standard-v1"

[paths."src/auth/**"]
require_ai_provenance = true   # enforced at commit time
require_audit = true           # enforced at commit time (needs flag above)
max_ai_ratio = 0.8             # compliance-only: flag if >80% AI commits
max_blind_edit_ratio = 0.3     # compliance-only: flag if >30% blind edits
.fi
.RE
.PP
Glob patterns support
.BR * ,\  ** ,
and
.BR ? .
.
.\" ─── compliance ──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────
.SS h5i audit compliance [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
Generate a compliance audit report over a date range.
Walks the commit history, re-evaluates policy rules, and aggregates session
data (blind edits, uncertainty signals) into a text, JSON, or HTML report.
.PP
.B Options
.RS 4
.TP
.BI \-\-since " YYYY-MM-DD"
Start of date range (inclusive).
.TP
.BI \-\-until " YYYY-MM-DD"
End of date range (inclusive).
.TP
.BI \-\-format " fmt"
Output format:
.BR text " (default), " json ", or " html .
The HTML output is a self-contained dark-theme page.
.TP
.BI \-\-output " FILE"
Write the report to a file instead of stdout.
.TP
.BI \-l, \-\-limit " N"
Maximum commits to scan (default: 500).
.RE
.PP
.B What is checked
.RS 4
.TP
At commit time:
.BR commit.require_ai_provenance ,\  commit.min_message_len ,\  paths.*.require_ai_provenance ,
and
.B paths.*.require_audit
(the last two require the global
.B require_audit_on_flagged_paths
flag).
.TP
Compliance-only:
.B paths.*.max_ai_ratio
and
.B paths.*.max_blind_edit_ratio
\(em trend rules designed for historical analysis rather than blocking
individual commits.
.RE
.PP
.B Example
.RS 4
.nf
h5i audit compliance \-\-since 2025-01-01 \-\-format html \-\-output report.html
.fi
.RE
.
.SH INTEGRITY RULES
The
.B \-\-audit
flag runs twelve deterministic, pure string/stat checks against the diff.
No AI and no network access are required.
.PP
.TP
.BR CREDENTIAL_LEAK \ (Violation)
Added line contains a credential keyword + assignment + quoted value, or a PEM header.
.TP
.BR CODE_EXECUTION \ (Violation)
Added non-comment line contains
.BR eval() ,\  exec() ,\  os.system() ,
or
.BR subprocess.* .
.TP
.BR CI_CD_MODIFIED \ (Violation)
.IR .github/workflows/ ,
Jenkinsfile, etc. modified without CI/CD intent in the prompt.
.TP
.BR SENSITIVE_FILE_MODIFIED \ (Warning)
.IR .env ,\  .pem ,\  .key ,\  id_rsa ,\  credentials
appear in the diff.
.TP
.BR LOCKFILE_MODIFIED \ (Warning)
.IR Cargo.lock ,\  package\-lock.json ,\  go.sum
changed without dependency intent stated.
.TP
.BR UNDECLARED_DELETION \ (Warning)
More than 60% of changes are deletions with no deletion/refactor intent.
.TP
.BR SCOPE_EXPANSION \ (Warning)
Prompt names a specific file but other source files were also modified.
.TP
.BR LARGE_DIFF \ (Warning)
More than 500 total lines changed.
.TP
.BR REFACTOR_ANOMALY \ (Warning)
.RI \[dq] refactor \[dq]
intent but insertions are 3x or more the deletions.
.TP
.BR PERMISSION_CHANGE \ (Warning)
.BR chmod\ 777 ,\  sudo ,\  setuid ,\  chown\ root
in added lines.
.TP
.BR BINARY_FILE_CHANGED \ (Info)
A binary file appears in the diff.
.TP
.BR CONFIG_FILE_MODIFIED \ (Info)
.IR .yaml ,\  .toml ,\  .json ,\  .ini ,
etc. modified.
.
.SH TEST RESULTS SCHEMA
Pass a JSON file to
.B \-\-test\-results
matching this schema (all fields optional):
.PP
.nf
{
  "tool":          "jest",
  "passed":        42,
  "failed":        1,
  "skipped":       3,
  "total":         46,
  "duration_secs": 4.7,
  "coverage":      0.87,
  "exit_code":     1,
  "summary":       "42 passed, 1 failed in 4.70s"
}
.fi
.PP
.B exit_code
takes precedence over counts when determining pass/fail.
.B total
is computed from counts if omitted.
Two bundled adapters are provided:
.TP
.I plugin/h5i\-pytest\-adapter.py
Runs pytest, uses
.B pytest\-json\-report
when available, falls back to output parsing.
.TP
.I plugin/h5i\-cargo\-test\-adapter.sh
Runs
.BR "cargo test" ,
accumulates counts across lib, integration, and doc-test sections.
.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B H5I_PROMPT
Default prompt for
.BR "h5i capture commit" .
.TP
.B H5I_MODEL
Default model name for
.BR "h5i capture commit" .
.TP
.B H5I_AGENT_ID
Default agent ID for
.BR "h5i capture commit" .
.TP
.B H5I_AGENT
Per-agent messaging identity for
.BR "h5i msg" .
Takes precedence over the stored default and is the recommended way to give
each agent (Claude Code, Codex) a distinct name when sharing one clone.
.TP
.B H5I_DEFAULT_ISOLATION
Pin a clone's default isolation tier for
.B "h5i env create"
when no
.B \-\-isolation
is given (e.g.
.BR workspace ", " process ).
Unset \(em auto-pick the strongest runnable tier;
.B "\-\-isolation auto"
re-probes past it.
.TP
.B "H5I_SECRET_<NAME>"
Default source for a brokered secret grant
.I <name>
(profile
.IR "source = \(dqenv:H5I_SECRET_<NAME>\(dq" ).
Injected into the run, redacted from evidence, audited by fingerprint.
.TP
.B H5I_TEST_RESULTS
Default path to a test results JSON file.
.TP
.B H5I_TRUST_FILTERS
When
.BR 1 / true ,
apply a project-local
.I .h5i/filters.toml
without the content-hash trust gate (for CI). See
.BR "h5i objects trust" .
.TP
.B ANTHROPIC_API_KEY
When set, enables semantic search in
.B h5i rollback
and Claude-assisted intent extraction in
.BR "h5i recall notes graph \-\-mode analyze" .
.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I .git/.h5i/
Sidecar root; all persistent metadata.
.TP
.I .git/.h5i/memory/<commit-oid>/
Claude memory snapshots.
Each directory contains memory files plus
.I _meta.json
(snapshot timestamp and file count).
.TP
.I .git/.h5i/session_log/<commit-oid>/analysis.json
Structured session log analysis produced by
.BR "h5i recall notes analyze" .
.TP
.I .git/.h5i/objects/ab/cd/<sha256>
Token-reduction raw-output store: the full captured output, content-addressed
and uncompressed (git-lfs style). Local only;
.I pins
alongside it lists digests protected from
.BR "h5i objects gc" .
.TP
.I .git/.h5i/trusted_filters.json
Content hash of a trusted project-local
.IR .h5i/filters.toml .
.TP
.I .git/.h5i/pending_context.json
Transient file written by the Claude Code hook; consumed and deleted
at the next
.BR "h5i capture commit" .
.TP
.I .git/.h5i/msg/
Local messaging state:
.I identity
(stored default agent),
.I cursors/<agent>.json
(per-agent read state), and
.I views/<agent>.json
(per-agent reply numbering). Per-agent files so multiple agents in one clone
never collide.
.TP
.I .h5i-ctx/
Context workspace (created by
.BR "h5i recall context init" ).
.TP
.I refs/h5i/notes
Git ref storing AI provenance, test metrics, causal links, and integrity
reports as JSON blobs attached to each commit.
Inspect with:
.B git notes \-\-ref refs/h5i/notes show <oid>
.TP
.I refs/h5i/shadow/<yyyymmdd\-hhmmss>
Lightweight WIP commit created by
.B h5i rewind
to preserve the pre-rewind working-tree state.
Never on any branch.
Recover with:
.B git checkout refs/h5i/shadow/<ts> \-\- .
.TP
.I refs/h5i/memory
Git ref storing Claude memory snapshots as a linear commit history of
git tree objects.
.TP
.I refs/h5i/msg
Git ref storing the cross-agent message log
(\fImessages.jsonl\fR + \fIagents.json\fR roster).
Append-only; pushed/pulled by
.B h5i share
and union-merged by message id on divergence.
.TP
.I refs/h5i/objects
Git ref storing token-reduction manifests
(\fImanifests.jsonl\fR): per-capture pointer + structured
.B ToolResult
summary. Append-only; pushed/pulled by
.B h5i share
and union-merged on divergence. Raw blobs stay local (see
.IR .git/.h5i/objects/ ).
.TP
.I refs/h5i/objects-data
Optional git-ref store for shareable raw blobs: a content-addressed tree
(\fI<sha256>\fR \(-> git blob). Pushed/pulled on demand via
.B h5i objects push
/
.BR "h5i objects pull" ,
union-merged (set union) on divergence.
.TP
.I ~/.claude/projects/<repo>/memory/
Claude Code's default per-project memory directory (source for snapshots).
.TP
.I ~/.claude/hooks/h5i-capture-prompt.sh
Hook script printed by
.BR "h5i hooks" .
.
.SH STORAGE
Neither
.I refs/h5i/notes
nor
.I refs/h5i/memory
is included in a plain
.BR "git push" " / " "git pull" .
Share them with:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
h5i share push                       # push all h5i refs to origin
git push origin refs/h5i/notes
git push origin refs/h5i/memory
git push origin refs/h5i/msg
.fi
.RE
.PP
Add fetch refspecs to
.I .git/config
so
.B git pull
picks them up automatically:
.PP
.RS 4
.nf
[remote "origin"]
    fetch = +refs/h5i/notes:refs/h5i/notes
    fetch = +refs/h5i/memory:refs/h5i/memory
    fetch = +refs/h5i/msg:refs/h5i/msg
.fi
.RE
.
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS Basic AI commit
.nf
h5i init
git add src/auth.rs
h5i capture commit \-m "add rate limiting" \\
    \-\-prompt "add per-IP rate limiting to the auth endpoint" \\
    \-\-model claude\-sonnet\-4\-6 \\
    \-\-agent claude\-code \\
    \-\-audit \-\-tests
.fi
.SS Causal chain
.nf
h5i capture commit \-m "fix off-by-one in validate_token" \\
    \-\-caused\-by a3f9c2b \\
    \-\-prompt "fix the bug introduced by the rate limiter"
.fi
.SS Intent-based rollback
.nf
h5i rollback "the OAuth login changes" \-\-dry\-run
h5i rollback "rate limiting" \-\-yes
.fi
.SS Rewind working tree to any past commit
.nf
# Preview what would change
h5i rewind HEAD~3 \-\-dry\-run

# Restore (dirty state is saved to refs/h5i/shadow/<ts>)
h5i rewind abc1234
git diff HEAD                                # review the result
git add \-A
h5i capture commit \-m "rewind: restore pre-regression state" \-\-agent claude\-code

# Undo the rewind if you change your mind
git checkout refs/h5i/shadow/20260420\-143012 \-\- .
.fi
.SS Session analysis workflow
.nf
# End of session
h5i recall notes analyze
h5i capture memory
h5i share push

# Start of next session
h5i recall resume
h5i recall notes show
h5i recall notes uncertainty \-\-file src/auth.rs
h5i recall notes omissions
.fi
.SS Context workspace
.nf
h5i recall context init \-\-goal "build OAuth2 login system"
h5i recall context branch oauth\-provider \-\-purpose "implement provider login path"
h5i recall context trace \-\-kind OBSERVE "HttpClient::send has no retry logic"
h5i recall context trace \-\-kind THINK   "exponential backoff with jitter is safest"
h5i recall context trace \-\-kind ACT     "added retry loop in send() with 5-attempt cap"
h5i recall context commit "implemented retry loop" \\
    \-\-detail "capped at 5 attempts; uses tokio::time::sleep"
h5i recall context branch experiment/sync\-retry \-\-purpose "try sync fallback"
# ...explore...
h5i recall context checkout oauth\-provider
h5i recall context status
.fi
.SS Context versioning
.nf
# Snapshot is created automatically on every h5i capture commit \(em nothing extra needed.

# Before editing a file, load all context entries that mention it:
h5i recall context relevant src/http_client.rs

# See how reasoning evolved between two code commits:
h5i recall context diff a3f8c12 9e21b04

# Continue from where a previous session left off:
h5i recall context restore a3f8c12

# Compact old context history and reclaim space:
h5i recall context pack
git gc
.fi
.SS Team workflow
.nf
# Alice
h5i capture commit \-m "add rate limiting" \-\-prompt "..." \-\-agent claude\-code
h5i capture memory
h5i share push
git push origin main

# Bob
git pull
h5i recall log
h5i share memory pull
h5i recall memory restore <alice\-commit>
.fi
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR git (1),
.BR git\-notes (1),
.BR git\-blame (1)
.PP
Full manual:
.I MANUAL.md
in the repository root.
.br
Demo repository:
.I examples/dnn\-from\-scratch/
.br
Context workspace paper: arXiv:2508.00031
.
.SH AUTHORS
Developed by Koukyosyumei and contributors.
.br
Source: <https://github.com/Koukyosyumei/h5i>
